# stock-analysis
## Overview of Project
### Purpose
The purpose of this project was to execute VBA skills that were supposed to be obtained through this module to conduct analysis on a set of environmental stocks to calculate the total volume traded and the return percentage for certain tickers within a given year. This was to be done through refactoring the initial solution code from the module to try and improve the runtime.
## Analysis
### Results
As expected, the script ran faster after being refactored as well as outputting the correct result. The main difference in refactoring seemed to be that ticker would get changed to the subsequent ticker for calculations after reaching the last row with the selected ticker rather than changing to the subsequent ticker after reaching the end of the dataset. The VBA script seemed to correctly output the analysis for the year 2018, as [the screenshot of the result](/resources/VBA_Challenge_2018.png) is the same as the screenshot provided in the challenge directions. Comparing it to [the year 2017](/resources/VBA_Challenge_2017.png), it would appear that all of the tickers except for "RUN" performed worse in 2018 in terms of return when compared to the year 2017. Although 10 of the stocks had a negative return 2018, most of them had a positive return in 2017. Notably, "TERP" had a negative return in 2017 and 2018, and thus seems like the most unsafe pick to invest in.
### Summary
Refactoring code requires a reconsideration of the underlying logic that drives the code. This can take up to a significant amount of time and there is no guarantee that the refactored code will run more efficiently than the previous iteration. The amount of saved time is relatively insignificant especially if the initial runtime is quite short, as is the case with smaller datasets. However with larger data, runtime can become longer and required computing power would likely increase. Thus, refactoring in that case would become espeically valuable, as the amount of time saved becomes multiplicatively more significant based on the amount of datasets being run. For example, refactoring a code for analysis could potentially decrease the analysis time of a dataset from two hours to 30 minutes, allowing for more data sets to be analyzed.
<br> <br>
Within the scope of this project, refactoring the VBA script definitely condensed the code and decreased the runtime, but the amount of time saved in runtime seems insignificant. The original code output the analysis in a fairly timely manner (~.45 seconds), whereas the refactored code was about 10 times faster (.046 seconds). Both scripts calculated the return and the total daily volume in less than a second, allowing for completion of the purpose effectively. The main disadvantage of the refactored script was that the amount of time saved was quite insiginicant relative to the amount of time spent refactoring it after the intial script was written.
